---
layout: default
title:  Proposal
---

## 2.2 Summary of the Project
In a paragraph or so, mention the main idea behind your project. Focus on the problem setup, not the solution, i.e. what is your goal? At the very least, you should have a sentence that clearly explains the input/output semantics of your project, i.e. what information will it take as input, and what will it produce. Mention any applications, if any, for your project.
We want to create an agent that gathers resources underwater in the most efficient way possible. The agent receives its surrounding environment as input in the form of pixels. It will then take appropriate action such as going to the surface of the water to replenish air, avoiding obstacles and hostile mobs, and collecting resources on the ocean floor. The environment will vary to include more challenges, including underwater structures, partially covered surfaces (to make getting air more difficult), items that replenish hunger and air levels, and more. This agent, if turned into a full-fledged mod, could potentially be used by Minecraft players to automate the repetitive task of gathering materials such as sand, clay, and food items, including various fish.

## 2.3 AI/ML Algorithms
In a single sentence, mention the AI and ML algorithm(s) you anticipate using for your project. It does not have to be a detailed description of the algorithm, even the sub-area of the field is sufficient. Examples of this include “planning with dynamic programming”, “reinforcement learning with neural function approximator”, “deep learning for images”, “min-max tree search with pruning”, and so on.
We anticipate using reinforcement learning with rewards and punishments, as well as CNNs for figuring out where to swim for air.
 
## 2.4 Evaluation Plan
As described in class, mention how you will evaluate the success of your project. In a paragraph, focus on the quantitative evaluation: what are the metrics, what are the baselines, how much you expect your approach to improve the metric by, what data will you evaluate on, etc. In another paragraph, describe what qualitative analysis you will show to verify the project works, such as what are the sanity cases for the approach, how will you visualize the internals of the algorithm to verify it works, what’s your moonshot case, i.e. it’ll be awesome and impressive if you get there. Note that these are not promises, we’re not going to hold you to what you say here, but we want to see if you are able to think about evaluation of your project in a critical manner.
Quantitative metrics for the performance of our agent include the number of resources gathered, value (determined by a reward system assigning numerical values to each type of resource) of the resources, whether the player survives, and the player’s resulting health level. We combine all of this into an overall score. If the agent dies, the score will be -1 regardless of the agent’s previous actions. If the agent is still alive at the end of 60 seconds, the score will be some weighted formula of the other metrics listed above. For example, picking up a diamond will be worth more than picking up dirt; if the agent returns with low health and takes a long time for that particular environment, the overall score will be low. As we iterate on our project, we may modify the reward function. In terms of the overall success of this project, we also want to minimize the time it takes for our ML algorithms to train. We plan on having about 3 different items, iron, gold, and diamonds, worth 1, 2, and 3 points respectively. Assuming we use a world that is 80x80 in terms of width and height and 20 units of depth; has 10 iron, 10 gold, and 10 diamonds; our agent has 60 seconds to gather and return to the surface; and using a rough guideline that in a near-optimal scenario our agent can pick up around 10 blocks of material, we want our agent to pick up the 10 blocks of diamond quickly and come out unharmed. This gives us a reward metric of 30 points.

As a sanity check, the agent should be able to pick up a single object and then come up for air.  The “moonshot” case for this agent would be gathering objects and returning to the surface from a complex underwater ruins, when it will be more difficult for the CNN to inform the agent of where the air at the surface may be. We plan to visualize our reinforcement learning with a Q-table, as well as creating graphs of the data in a Jupyter notebook. For the CNN, we want to display all the layers into a notebook as well, and create a heat map of where we believe an air bubble may be for our agent to breathe.


## 2.5 Appointment with the Instructor
10/21 at 3:00 - 3:15pm
